>> James Halliday: The cat command was
originally intended to concatenate files,
which you can still use it for
that purpose.
So, all of the files that
you specify as arguments to
the cat commands will be concatenated.
So, if I make two files really quick.
>> James Halliday: I'll make one
called beep, and one called boop.
Now, if I type cat beep.txt, boop.txt,
I see the contents of both of those
files written to standard output.
You can put as many, or
as few files as you want.
If you don't specify any commands,
then it reads from standard input, so
you have to type stuff.
If you ever get stuck in a program
that you don't know how to quit from,
like this, because it's reading from
the standard input on the keyboard.
You can usually do CTRL+D,
which ends gracefully, or
CTRL+C if it's like, get me out of this
thing, I want this program to exit.
>> James Halliday: But another useful
thing you can use the cat command for
is if you just wanna display
the contents of a file.
You can do cat, just the name of that
file, and you can see what's in it.
So this is really useful if you're moving
around in your directory structure CD and
LS, that kind of stuff.
You can see what's in your files.
If you accidentally do something like
cat a JPEG file, so I can show you.
What that looks like, or a PNG file,
you'll get something like this,
not very helpful.
Also, your terminal might
get a little bit stuck.
If that happens, type reset,
even though you might not be able to see
the characters that you're typing anymore,
because some odd characters can
get printed to your screen.
If you type reset and then press Enter,
it'll usually fix that.
>> James Halliday: That's the cat command.
>> James Halliday: Another useful
command to try out is the copy command
which is cp.
So how it works is, for example,
you can pass in a source file,
is the first argument to the copy command.
So I'm gonna copy beep.txt to
a file called message.txt.
What this is gonna do, is it's gonna
copy the contents of beep.txt and
it will create a new
file called message.txt.
And now if I cat message.txt,
it has the contents of the first file.
>> James Halliday: You can also
copy into directories if you want.
So all of the rules about paths apply, so
you can use things like
../ if I wanna copy for
example this file to the parent directory.
>> James Halliday: Because I
don't specify a file name,
what the copy command is gonna do
is it's gonna copy beep.txt into
the parent directory into
a file called beep.txt.
So it's the same as doing this.
These are the same,
both of these commands.
>> James Halliday: Now,
if I go up a directory, I see beep.txt.
>> James Halliday: Oops.
>> James Halliday: So you can also use
the copy commands to copy multiple
files into a directory.
So if I have a directory like, I'll call
it cool, oops didn't mean to do that.
>> James Halliday: So
here I have a directory called cool, and
if I wanna copy both of these text files,
so I can copy beep.txt and
boop.txt into the directory called cool.
And I don't have to include
the slash at the end.
What the copy command is gonna do
is it's gonna look at the last
argument in this argument list
of beep.txt, boop.txt and cool.
If the last thing is a directory,
then it will copy all of
the preceding files into that place.
So now, if I go into the cool directory,
I see two files, beep.txt and boop.txt.
And I can cat them both again.
All right, so that's the copy command,
and that's cat.
And there's some other things, I think.
Great, so we're here.
Another really useful thing, so
this is the first example of flag.
A flag is a special kind of argument
that starts with a dash, or
sometimes they start with two dashes.
It's also called the switch sometimes.
So flag and switch are sort
of interchangeable terms for
this kind of thing.
It's sort of a way to customize
the behavior of a command.
So in this case,
the copy commands takes a flag called -r,
which means recursively copy.
So what you can do is you can
recursively copy an entire directory
structure to someplace
else with this command.
So if I go up a couple of directories,
then I can recursively
copy this directory,
day1 into a place called the called great.
And what it's going to do is
it's going to go into day1,
it's gonna see all the files, it's gonna
copy them into this second directory.
It's also gonna see every directory
in the day1 directory, and
it's gonna recursively copy those as well.
So if I go into the great directory now,
it has all of the files and
also all of the directories.
Oops, so it's a very handy switch,
or flag.
If you wanna read more
about these flags and
switches to every command, you can use
the man command which is short for manual.
So if you do man space cp, you can list
out all of the different switches that
any command that you
wanna learn about ticks.
So if I scroll down, i can see the -r.
So there's also more than
one way to run cp -r.
You can use a lower case r or a capital R,
or you can pass in --recursive,
which is a longer way of
specifying what you wanna do.
Sometimes it's nice to use the longer
form, cuz if you have a shell scripts and
it's kind of an obscure one,
then someone reading your
shell script might have a picture
of what that flag does.